Yet again, the Instagram algorithm has
had a major update. And so, in today's
episode, I'm going to be sharing with
you 10 of the latest Instagram features
that are actually going to matter and
make a difference for you as you're
trying to grow your personal brand or
small business on Instagram. Let's not
waste any time. Let's jump right into
things. The first new announcement isn't
necessarily a new feature that Instagram
released, but rather a new direction
that Instagram is headed, or I guess you
could say a clarity that we finally have
on where Instagram is headed. And this
comes directly from the head of
Instagram himself. He posted a very raw
but yet thorough comprehensive brain
dump on his Instagram kind of just
talking through how he views AI and the
future of Instagram and authenticity and
professional content video editing and
growing your platform. And it's very
very thorough and it's quite long. So if
you haven't already checked it out, I
will link it up down in the show notes
below so that you can read through this
full carousel that Adam Moseri, the head
of Instagram, posted. Again, really,
really in-depth, really thorough. I'm
not going to read the whole thing, but
one of my big takeaways from it is that
he believes, and I agree, that AI
content is not going anywhere anytime
soon. And very soon, it's going to be
indistinguishable from everything else.
Like AI content versus real content,
non-AII content, you're not going to be
able to tell the difference. And I would
be willing to bet that you have already
fallen for an AI video. I bet there's
already been a video that's come across
your feed, whether you realize it or
not, that was AI and you didn't realize
it. And so, one of the things that he
talked about in this carousel, something
that I talked about in my 2026
predictions video, which I highly
recommend you go and check out if you
haven't already, is that authenticity is
going to become a premium. People are
going to hunt for, search for, and crave
authentic creators. Now, authenticity is
one of those buzzwords that us social
media coaches love to throw around and
then usually the tip is like just be
yourself. Just be you. Here's a
practical way that you can be more
authentic on social media. Reduce the
time between idea and execution between
the moment where you're like, "Hey, I
have this thing I want to talk about. I
have this story I want to tell. I have
this tip that I want to give." And
actually pressing post. That means
eliminate the steps in between.
Eliminate the editing process. so that
it's FaceTime content. It's just you
talking to the camera with no cuts, no
edits, no B-roll. Eliminate the script
writing process. Eliminate the step in
your process where you go to AI and you
have it refined what you were going to
say. Eliminate all of these little
checks and bumps, these moments where
you're going to overthink, where you're
going to filter, where you're going to
refine, and ultimately where you're
going to become less authentic. Instead,
get faster, become more efficient, and
reduce the time between idea and
execution. And that's how you'll
actually be more authentic. That's how
you'll actually get more views. And most
importantly, that's how you'll actually
build trust in 2026 and onward. And
trust, which already has become so key
for purchasing decisions. When people
are deciding whether or not to become
customers, trust is at an all-time high
because the last 5, six years, we've all
been asking the question, who can I
trust? Where can I get my information
from? What news outlets are going to
tell me the truth? What story is
accurate? But now we add an added layer
on top of that which is artificial
intelligence. So not only could I be
getting information from a source that I
don't trust. The source itself could
literally be non-human. And so trust is
only going to become that much more
paramount for people in deciding who to
follow, who to engage with, and who to
become a customer of. So embrace
authenticity. That's tip number one. The
second new piece of Instagram news is
super exciting and that is that we can
now for the first time ever put
clickable links in our reels.
Hallelujah. But there's a catch. There's
a few catches actually. Catch number one
is you can't do this in Instagram. You
can only achieve this feature. You can
only use this feature if you are using
the edits app which for those of you who
don't know that is the editing app that
Instagram released. It's kind of like
their competitor of Cap Cut. And I will
say it's actually pretty good. The first
couple months of edits was rough, but it
has significantly improved since then,
and I actually really enjoy it to the
point where when I'm editing my content
on mobile, I use the edits app. Most of
the time, I still edit on Cap Cut and on
desktop, but when I'm editing on mobile,
I use the edits app. But again, that's
catch number one, is you have to use the
edits app. Catch number two, and this is
the much bigger catch, is you can't link
anything. You can't put a link to your
website, your YouTube, your blog,
whatever. You can only put a link to two
things. The first thing that you can
link to is Instagram profiles. You can
link to someone else's Instagram
profile. So, let's say you were shouting
someone out, you were talking about
another creator, maybe you were
collabing with someone, you could put a
link or a clickable button, I should
say, to their profile somewhere on your
reel. And then the second thing that you
are allowed to link to is reels. Now,
you can link to your own reels or
someone else's reels. And when you link
to a reel, it actually creates a little
embedded video player within your own
reel. All you have to do to use the link
a real feature is of course number one,
open the edits app like I already said,
start a new project and then when you
are creating your reel, just tap on that
Instagram logo down in the center. And
then again, you'll have the two options
to choose between profile or real. And
then within each of those, there are
different navigation settings to help
you find what you're looking for. You
can either copy and paste the link to
the profile or to the reel. Or if you're
going through the reels navigation, you
can actually sort through every reel
that you have previously posted and
reels that you have previously saved. So
you could create an entire saved folder
of reels that you plan on embedding in
your future reels. There's some really
creative ways that I've already seen
people using this feature. One creator I
saw put four of their past reels on the
screen at one time and they were like,
"Hey, believe it or not, there are four
reels on the screen right now. You can
click on any of them to watch." I think
another really creative way to use this
feature is to highlight the reels that
you're doing in a series. So if you're
like, "Hey, this was day four. If you
want to watch day three, click right
here and you can click and immediately
it'll take them right into the previous
reel or whatever it is that you want to
link them to." So it's quite similar to
how on YouTube at the end of the video
there's often times like clickable other
recommended videos on the screen. You
can basically now do that on Instagram.
Fingers crossed that someday in the
future we'll be able to add any
clickable links to our reels. But this
is a huge step forward and something
that we've never been able to do before.
Instagram algorithm update number three
is one that people always overlook and
they always yawn when I talk about it,
but I think it's actually really, really
big. And that is that Instagram has
added five new languages, bringing us to
a total of nine total languages that
your reels cannot just be automatically
translated to, but automatically dubbed
and lip matched. What that means is not
only will your closed captions be in a
different language, but Instagram can
automatically take your voice and use AI
to make it sound like you and your voice
were speaking that other language. And
it will even detect where your mouth is
and do some crazy AI magic to make it
look like your lips were actually
speaking those words. The five new
languages that Instagram just added are
all different languages that are quite
popular in India. And that makes sense
because India represents the largest
group of people who uses Instagram.
There are more people in India who use
Instagram than any other country in the
world. The four languages that were
previously available for auto
translation and dubbing were English,
Spanish, Hindi, and Portuguese. And the
five new languages are listed on the
screen, and I'm not going to read them
off because I have an American
education, which means I'm probably
going to mispronounce these and you guys
are going to make fun of me for that.
So, I'm just going to put them on the
screen. The fourth major piece of
algorithm news, and this comes also
directly from the head of Instagram
himself, is that you will not be
punished. Your views will not be
suppressed. You will not get less reach
if you are using a third-party editing
app. That means that you are free to use
Cap Cut. You're free to use iMovie.
You're free to use InShot. You're free
to film your content on literal rolls of
film and cut it up with actual scissors
and then upload it to Instagram. No
matter where you edit your content, you
will not be punished. That is directly
from Instagram's head himself, Adam
Moseri. Now, with that being said, there
is some conflicting news about the Edits
app. When the Edits app was first
announced, he said, "No, we will not
give preferential treatment to reels
that are created with the edits app. We
will not boost or push the reels that
were made with edits." But then a few
months later, he said something on his
stories which kind of caught a lot of
people off guard. He said, "We have
noticed that people who use the edits
app are getting slightly more reach."
Which is confusing because like we've
noticed you literally run the algorithm.
So like what do you mean you've noticed?
Either the algorithm is pushing out
those reels or it's not. The way I make
sense of all of this is that when the
edits app first released, you might
remember there was a little badge that
some people would get on their reel when
they edited their reel in the edits app.
and the badge said like made with edits
and it was like this big shiny colorful
badge that went on your reels. And I
believe that for those first few months
because people had that badge, it was
slightly ever so slightly increasing
engagement or if nothing else increasing
watch time because people were like,
"Oh, what's that badge?" They would
glance at it and even if they were only
looking at it for half a second, that
was adding an extra half a second to
every single person who posted through
the edits app. And so that was
inadvertently leading to a slight
increase in reach. Now, I wouldn't put
it past Instagram. I wouldn't put it
past Meta to inflate the numbers and,
you know, boost and push out the content
that was edited in the edits app, but to
the best of my knowledge from all of the
studies we've done, I've actually posted
a few episodes in the past about some of
these studies, there seems to be no
difference. Whether you edit in edits or
Cap Cut or iMovie, whatever, it doesn't
really make a significant difference.
So, if it gives you peace of mind, if it
helps you sleep at night to post through
the edits app, knock your socks off. If
you hate the edits app and you just love
using Cap Cut, go ahead and keep doing
that. You should be fine. The one
asterisk that I will put on all of this
is just make sure that you do not have a
watermark or a logo on your content.
That is something that Instagram has
said for years will downrank you. the
algorithm will see that logo and
basically it looks at it as something
that is not favorable, something that
they don't want on Instagram and so they
will downrank you and you will get less
views if you have some sort of watermark
or floating logo on your video.
Algorithm update number five comes again
directly from the head of Instagram
himself and that is that they're working
on the ability to schedule trial reels.
Scheduling trial reels has been
something that many of us have been
asking for since day one because trial
reels are a gamecher. Trial reels are a
great way, arguably the best way to
reach non-followers. I've done multiple
episodes on this channel in the past
about trial reels, which I highly
recommend going and watching if you have
no idea what a trial reel is. But Adam
Moseri said that they are going to begin
working on the ability to schedule trial
reels. But that's not an update in and
of itself because there's already a way
to do this. Unfortunately, there's no
way to do it within Instagram. You're
going to need a thirdparty tool. The
thirdparty tool that you can use to
achieve this is Metracool. Metriccool is
my favorite scheduling platform. It's
the platform I've used to schedule every
post since I went on my honeymoon in
2022. And so, yes, it is trusted. No, it
will not hurt your views. It makes life
so much easier. I schedule probably 95%
of my posts through Metricool. And a few
weeks ago, I was popping around on
there. I was scheduling a reel and I
noticed that there was a new feature
where it said trial reel. I could
schedule this to be posted as a trial
reel. Since then, I now schedule five
trial reels per day. And just last week,
or maybe it was two weeks ago, I put out
a episode on how to create 150 trial
reels in 15 minutes or less and then
schedule them all in metrical. So, you
can check out that. I don't want this
entire episode to just be like, hey, go
check out this other episode. But
there's a lot of connecting pieces you
might need. So, anyways, you can
schedule trial reels in Metriccool.
Speaking of Metrole, today's entire
episode is brought to you by them. Like
I said, it's the scheduling platform
that I use. It is the scheduling
platform that I recommend. And my
favorite two things about Metrocool is
that number one, it tells you your
actual best time to post. If you listen
to all of these different social media
apps and these different like studies
that have come out, you'll be so
confused because they all give you a
different best time to post. In fact,
according to HubSpot, the best time to
post is 6:00 to 9:00 p.m. According to
Sprouto, it is 11:00 a.m. to 6 p.m.
According to Hootsweet, it varies
depending on the day of the week, which
makes a little bit more sense. According
to Buffer, it is 3 to 6:00 p.m. And
according to Social Pilot, it is 6 to 8
a.m. So, no, according to all of these
different studies that have come out,
there is no universal best time to post.
But what a lot of us are then tempted to
do is just stick with our Instagram
insights. And I hate to be the bearer of
bad news, but your Instagram insights
are kind of lying to you. They're
telling you when people are most active,
but that doesn't mean that people are
most likely to engage or even most
likely to engage with your posts. It
just means out of all of your followers,
the highest percentage of your followers
are online at this time. What I love
about Metricool is that it shows you
actual engagement trends. and it shows
you based off each day of the week which
hours are your followers more and less
engaged with your content, which makes
scheduling content for the future super
helpful. And then my second favorite
reason to use Metricool is that I can
schedule content for the future. So, if
I make a reel today and it's an
evergreen reel, like it didn't have to
be posted today to make sense. Well,
then I'll schedule it for let's say
today, and then I'll make a duplicate of
that reel in metrical and I'll schedule
it again like four or five months from
now. So then four or five months from
now, I already have at least one post
scheduled. And then if I repeat this
process, the next thing you know, you
wake up and it's April 2026 and you
already have like 17 posts scheduled for
the month without doing any work because
they're just duplicates of posts from
the past. It's basically my upycling
strategy. So again, I'm the biggest fan
of Metracool out there. I believe that
every single content creator should be
using a scheduling platform and I think
Metriccool should be that platform. So,
I will put the link to them down in the
show notes below, but if you use code
Brock, B R O C K, at checkout, you can
get Metricool Pro for a month for free.
Instagram algorithm update number six is
another new feature, and this one is
called early access reels. This is kind
of a fun little trick, little gimmicky
feature. It's not going to be like
revolutionary for Instagram, but
basically early access reels is a
setting that you can turn on so that
your reels kind of like premiere to your
followers first. So most people I think
aren't going to have significant success
or any real difference made because of
this feature, but the bigger your
audience is, the more effective this
tool is going to be. Another way to say
this would be the more fans or super
fans you have, the more use you're going
to get out of this feature. But again,
when you turn it on, basically your reel
will be kind of like visible to
nonfollowers, but it will be blurred out
and it will say that this is an early
access reel that is only available to
followers. So, if someone doesn't follow
you, but they see this reel pop up. They
might be like, "Oh, what is that? That's
really interesting. I I I want to see
this person's reel. I want to get early
access to this." And so, it might
increase the likelihood that they follow
you. Instagram algorithm update number
seven is a flipping gamecher. and like I
don't even know what to make of this.
This is going to be so massive. And no,
it's not 2017. Instagram for TV. Some of
you might remember a decade ago when
Instagram came out with IGTV. It was its
own separate app and then it was
integrated back into Instagram and it
was like long form video and it was
actually mostly horizontal video. But
they eventually scrapped the program and
not enough people were using it so they
got rid of it. But now IGTV is making a
comeback, but it's going to be
different. Instagram has partnered with
Amazon Fire TV to basically put reels on
the big screen. Now, they said that over
the coming months and in the future,
they're going to continue to roll this
out. They're going to put it on more
streaming platforms. And it doesn't take
a rocket scientist to figure out that
they're probably going to show
favoritism towards horizontal reels
because I don't know if you've ever
watched a vertical video on your TV.
It's just a little clunky. But they're
not only going to prioritize horizontal
reels, they're also going to begin
prioritizing long form reels. So, I
don't want you to take this out of
context. I am not saying that you need
to start posting 19minute long reels on
your Instagram, but I do want this to be
on your radar because pretty soon, it
would not shock or surprise me if
Instagram broadens the reach, broadens
the length of Instagram reels, if they
start encouraging us to post horizontal
reels, or if there's a new setting, a
new way that you can post reels that are
meant to be watched on the TV.
Basically, Instagram has more or less
succeeded in their competition against
Tik Tok. I'm not saying that Tik Tok is
dead. I love Tik Tok. I'm still using
Tik Tok all the time, but Instagram
basically achieved its goals with Tik
Tok. Tik Tok in the US was sold. 80% of
the app is now owned by US companies.
So, more or less Meta won its lobbying
and its campaign against Tik Tok. And so
now they're shifting their focus to the
other really big competitor when it
comes to social media video, which is
YouTube. And so that's why Instagram for
TV is here. That's why it's probably not
going anywhere anytime soon. and it's
something that I want to be on your
radar. Instagram update number eight is
going to be revolutionary for Instagram
stories and that's because since the
dawn of Instagram stories, they have not
been a way to grow your following.
Instagram stories pretty much only reach
your existing followers. Sure, someone
who is a non-follower could go view your
stories. Sure, if you used like a
location tag or a hashtag in the past,
both of which no longer apply to
stories, you could get a little bit of
reach to outside followers. But 99% of
the time, 99.9% of the time, your story
viewers were your existing followers.
And so then it makes sense that if only
your existing followers are viewing your
stories, you can't grow your following
with stories. But the new Instagram
feature is you can now reshare anyone
else's public story to your own. What
that means is if you go on Instagram
right now, which you can try this out if
you want, go to my Instagram and
hopefully I have a story posted at the
time that you're watching this. If I do,
tap on that little share button in the
bottom right corner and then you can
share my story to your own. Or to say it
another way, you could repost my story
onto your own story. Now, this doesn't
give you credit. It shows up as if it
was my story. If you're familiar with
how over the last few years, if someone
else tagged you in their story and then
you reshared it, it's the same thing.
So, it shows up as if they posted it, it
shows up as if they are the content
creator, but it's on your story. So then
your followers could see it. And so
that's why now, for the first time ever,
stories can actually be a way to grow.
They can actually be a way to reach new
people. If you create a shareworthy
story, it could potentially get a bunch
of shares, which would help you get a
bunch of views, which could potentially
help you get a bunch of new followers.
It's kind of like a brand new way to
reach people. And I think that most
people, 99.9% of creators are not going
to take advantage of this in 2026. But
if you can learn to create shareworthy
stories, you're going to find a real
gold mine because there's not very much
competition, but there is a huge upside.
Instagram algorithm update number nine
is the reason that many of us might have
experienced our views dropping since
early December. And that is that they
changed the way views are counted. And
the way they've changed it actually
makes a lot more sense now. Kind of
makes me ask the question, why did they
have it set up anyway else, anyway
differently originally? But basically,
the original way that views were counted
was if your post was on someone else's
explore page or if someone else viewed
your profile, the view would count even
if they didn't tap on your specific
post. So, if I pulled up my explore page
and there's, you know, a dozen different
videos and carousels and posts on that
page, even if I don't click on any of
them, all of those posts now are
technically getting one additional view
from me. If you clicked on my profile
and you scrolled down on my profile
because you were looking for one
specific post that I made that you
thought was super funny and you wanted
to show it to your friend, theoretically
all of those posts that you scrolled by
were getting additional views just by
scrolling by them. That doesn't really
make much sense, but basically a lot of
people were getting artificially
inflated view counts from explore and
profile. So now Instagram has changed
that. They've rectified it so that it
only counts as a view if someone
actually taps on the post. So again, if
you have seen a decrease in views over
the last few months, that might be one
of the reasons why. Update number nine,
and I'm sorry if I sound like a broken
record today. I'm really not trying to
be sensationalized. I even didn't think
that I needed to make a new video about
Instagram algorithm updates, but then I
started going through the list and I'm
like, "Holy crap, I haven't talked about
that. Holy crap, that one was massive
and I haven't talked about that." Yeah,
like I've posted about them on my
Instagram, which if you haven't already,
I highly encourage you to follow me
there because I post about these updates
like when the news drops, but I haven't
posted a full YouTube breaking down all
this recent news. So, update number nine
is also massive, and it is that hashtags
have now been cut from 30 to five. You
used to, since the dawn of Instagram, be
able to use up to 30 hashtags in your
caption, but now, as of January 2026,
you are limited to only five hashtags in
your caption. I think that this signals
the broader shift that has been going on
at Instagram for the last four or 5
years. That is phasing out hashtags. I
highly doubt hashtags will ever be
completely removed from the platform
because then the angry mob with
pitchforks would definitely show up at
Adam Ozer's front door like, "Give me my
hashtags." But I do think the relevance,
the importance, the effectiveness of
hashtags is going to continue to be
lessened and lessened and lessened over
time. Now, we can only use a maximum of
five hashtags in our posts, in our
captions. If you're a new listener to
the show, then you might be surprised to
hear what I'm about to say, but forget
about hashtags. They're just not a
reliable or effective way to grow on
Instagram anymore. They're not that
important. So, if you want to use five,
go for it. But honestly, I wouldn't
stress out that much. Also, by the way,
if you are a new listener, I encourage
you to hit that subscribe button because
we're super close to 100K. And in fact,
at the time that I'm posting this, we
might be there. I'm not sure. We're
we're getting really, really close.
Speaking of, in one of my recent
episodes, I promised that I would pick
three people who commented on that video
to receive a free one-on-one coaching
call with me once we hit 100K. So,
number one, make sure that you're
subscribed if you're not already. And
number two, go back to this video. We'll
put the image of it on the screen. Go
back to that video and leave a comment
and or a thumbs up. and I'll randomly
pick three people to win that one-on-one
call. The 10th and final Instagram
algorithm update is that you now have
your own customizable algorithm. Yes,
that's right. Instagram is calling it
your algorithm and they have now rolled
out this feature worldwide. Essentially,
all you have to do to access this is
view the Instagram reels page, the
basically reels explorer page. Tap on
those three dots or three bars or the
gear icon. It looks different for
different profiles. click on it in the
upper right hand corner and then you'll
see what your algorithm currently is.
Now, this does not impact who sees your
post. This does not impact your growth.
This is only for you as the consumer.
This is going to give you a short little
sentence describing what sorts of
content you're into. And you can then
add other things that you might be
interested in that you want to see more
of to the list or add certain terms,
topics, and phrases that you want to see
less of to the don't show me section.
Now, like I said, adjusting your
algorithm isn't going to change how your
posts show up or are distributed. But if
your followers are adding topics related
to your account to their algorithm,
well, then your post will be more likely
to show up on their reals page. So,
overall, I don't think that this feature
is going to be super widely adopted
because it's just a few extra steps,
right? And most people are just going to
be mindlessly scrolling. They're not
going to be that intentional with
curating what they are consuming. But I
do believe there might be a small subset
of the population who does use this your
algorithm feature. And so it's just
something that I want you to be aware
of. And if it's something that you want
to encourage your followers to add your
topic to their algorithm, that might be
something that you might want to do. But
again, generally something that I don't
think is going to make the biggest
difference, but something you should be
aware of. Thank you so much for watching
today. I know Instagram is a slog. I
know that there are always constant
updates and changes, and this was just
the 10 that I think are going to make
the biggest difference for you. There's
probably 30 other ones that I could have
listed that aren't going to make a
difference, but are probably going to
take up space in your brain because some
social media expert is going to be like,
"You need to care about this." I don't
[music] think so. If I haven't reported
on it, if I haven't told you about it,
then chances are that it's probably not
something you need to worry about.
Speaking of, I do send out an email
every single Tuesday that includes a
what's hot this week or what new
features do you need to know this week.
So, if you want to make sure that you
get that email for free directly to your
inbox, just click on the link in the
show notes below, but it's
instacclub.com/newsletter.
Again, totally free. I send it out every
Tuesday morning and it includes an
update with the latest features that you
need to be aware of and how to use them.
But again, thank you so much for
watching today and as always, happy
networking.
[music]